# Project 3 - Stack Smashing

**Project Description**

Given a program package and a patch file that opens up an exploit in the program, apply the patch and subsequently use the exploit to explore the nature of buffer overflow attacks, analyzing assembly language along the way.

This lab piqued my interest in cybersecurity but had the downside of being rather involved with all the tracing, especially for the last part with the file deletion. I was able to successfully use the exploit to crash all 3 variants of the program but was unable to figure out how to delete a file using the exploit. My solution -- with which I pigeonholed myself with admittedly -- I was at a point where I was *a partial ASCII character* away from being able to have my solution work but was ultimately unable to find a way around the byte-unit limitation. Looking back, I should have went ahead and taken the "partial credit" route and edited the source file to including a code segment that would do the evil deed. It would likely have gotten me more credit and also resulted in me spending way less time on the lab than I did.

**Description of Files**

smashinglab.txt

- A lab-log containing an exhausive, detailed breakdown of the steps I took to complete this lab. This one is particularly long just due to the extensive tracing and subsequent analysis that had to be performed.

thttpd-sp.s

thttpd-as.s

thttpd-no.s

- The 3 assembly files generated by compiling thttpd.c with different flags, respectively
    - with '-fstack-protector-strong' for strong stack protection
    - with '-fsanitize=address -static-libasan' for address sanitization
    - with '-fno-stack-protector -zexecstack' for neither (no protection)

config_valid.txt

- A basic config file that was successful in being accepted by the program, a necessary step in building a working buffer overflow attack.

config_sp.txt

config_as.txt

config_no.txt

- Config files that, respectively, crashed the SP, AS, and NO variants of the program with a buffer overflow.

config_exploit.txt

config_exploit_shell.txt

- Config files that I used in attempt to build a buffer overflow attack that would delete file (in the same directory). 
    - The first one is an un-hexed version, in which the non-0 parameter characters are supposed to be hex code launching a shell (this was my "genius approach"... that didn't work). As stated in the writeup, I was unable to translate this successfully to hex code, but basically if there was a 1:1 translation between the ASCII here to hex, theoretically this would have worked :)
    - The second one *is* the first one, but in hex... but as mentioned in the description at the beginning it is half a byte off in the offset and I was unable to overcome this limitation to get the instruction set up correctly.